Now to get input values
in the JavaScript code of this JavaScript action,
we can use this core object,
which we're importing from this GitHub provided package.
This core object does not just have a notice method,
but it also has a getInput method,
which allows us to get one of the provided inputs.
Here we have to pass a string,
so some text as a first argument to this method.
And the string, which we do pass here,
should contain one of these input names.
For example, to get the provided bucket,
I'll use bucket here, because that's the key I chose.
And in main.js, I'll add this here
as the key I wanna retrieve.
Then we can add a second argument,
which is a JavaScript object,
created with those curly braces,
where you can set some extra options.
Like for example, that excess white space
should be removed automatically,
or that it's required, which this is.
And then getInput will return a value,
which I'll store in a constant called bucket, here.
And now I can retrieve this for the bucket-region,
since that's another name I chose here.
Bucket-region.
And I'll name this bucketRegion here.
And I also set it to required here,
because whilst it's not required here,
I do need it here in my code.
And here, I'll set required to false,
because actually in my action.yml file this is also false.
By the way, this required setting
would simply cause an error if we try to receive the value,
and no value is yielded.
Here, I could also set this to true
because even though it's not required here,
we do set a default value
and therefore we will always return a value
even if the user of this action didn't provide one.
And I will actually use true here,
now that I think about it,
because this value will be needed later
and the code would not work, as expected,
if this would be empty or if no value would be provided.
Now there's one last input which I wanna retrieve.
And that's of course the dist-folder input.
So we also add this here as a key,
and store it in dist-folder, like this, for example.
And with that we also extract this input here.
Now that the inputs were extracted, we can use them.
And I wanna use them to target this S3 bucket,
which data I get through these arguments here,
through these inputs.
And I wanna send my files in the dist-folder,
to this bucket.
So here I wanna upload my files.
Now to upload these files,
there are a couple of approaches we could use.
We could, for example, use the AWS SDK,
the Software Development Kit for JavaScript,
to use some JavaScript methods provided by AWS,
to interact with AWS services like S3.
We could do this, but here I'll choose another approach.
Here I'll use the exact package, provided by GitHub,
to actually run a command
that we could also run in the command line.
But I will run it from inside this JavaScript
script file here
For that, on the exec object, we can call exec method.
And that method needs a command as a string.
Here, we could, for example, use echo
because this will be executed in the regular shell
of our runner.
But here, I don't wanna echo.
Instead I'll use the AWS CLI,
which is actually pre-installed on these Ubuntu images,
there. If you take a look at the software
that is installed on these images, right from the start
You will see that it does come with the AWS CLI.
And this is a command line interface.
It's a tool, executed in the command line,
that allows us to send commands to our AWS account.
And here we can use the "AWS S3 sync" command,
with whitespace between AWS, S3, and sync,
to synchronize a local folder to an S3 bucket.
For that, we now just need to specify the local folder here.
And then the S3 bucket path, here.
And then we can add some extra option flags.
Now for the local folder, that of course is my dist-folder.
And therefore we can create a constant but we don't have to.
For the S3Uri, for the identifier of our S3 bucket,
that is a path which I'll construct dynamically,
by using back ticks here.
Two back ticks, not single quotes, but back ticks.
To construct a dynamic string value,
where I inject a value with this special JavaScript syntax.
So this is all JavaScript.
Has nothing to do with GitHub actions.
And here, I will inject my bucket.
So the name of the bucket.
This is my S3 bucket path, therefore.
Hence, I will also inject this here,
by converting these single quotes to back ticks.
So that I can use this same injection syntax here
in the exec line. Line 13.
And I'll inject this S3Uri value here.
So this identifier of the bucket.
And I'll inject a value for the local folder,
and that will be my dist-folder, here.
So now, with that, I'm telling the AWS CLI
which local folders should be synchronized
with which remote S3 bucket.
And this command could be executed in the regular shell
of our runner.
And that will indeed happen behind the scenes.
But we're triggering the command
through our JavaScript action file here.
And that's something you can do
with the help of this exec package here.
We're not done though,
I will add an extra flag with "--region",
to specify the region where this bucket can be found.
And this must be added here.
And here, I'll inject the bucketRegion, which I extracted.
So I'm using all these inputs,
which we're getting for this action.
And this will now trigger this command,
which should try to send our files to the S3 bucket.
Now we're almost done with this custom action.
And before we use it in our Workflow,
there's just one thing I also wanna show you real quick.
And that's this Github, this "actions/github" package here,
where we import the GitHub object.
We're not using it here.
But this object would give us access to the Octokit client,
which in the end is a tool provided by GitHub
that makes it easy to send requests to the GitHub REST API.
And we get access to a context object
which offers some values.
Not all values but some values of the GitHub context object.
For example, we could get the name of the action
that's currently executing,
and a couple of other values as well.
We don't need it here,
but I wanted to mention, that this GitHub package
does give you this extra data, and this client,
this Octokit client as it's called,
which can be used for communicating with GitHub's APIs.
But that's it for this script file, at least for the moment.
Let's now see how we can use this custom action
and how we can use it such that everything works.